# stringdb-beacon

Knowledge Beacon Wrapper for the StringDb resource (https://string-db.org/)

## Overview
This server was generated by the [swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) project. By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-core/wiki) from a remote server, you can easily generate a server stub.  This
is an example of building a swagger-enabled Flask server.

This example uses the [Connexion](https://github.com/zalando/connexion) library on top of Flask.

## Running with Docker

Use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to build and run the application. 
Before using compose in the project, you should first copy the configuration file:

```
cp docker-compose.yaml-template docker-compose.yaml
```

The host machines `NEO4J_AUTH` environment variable is passed into the docker containers.  If it is not set then it will default to neo4j/password.  You can also directly modify the default password (plus Docker port redirections, etc.) 
in this 'docker-compose.yaml' file.  

Once ready to build, type the following into the terminal::

```
export NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/<password>  # if you wish to change your default password
cd stringdb-beacon
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```

> **Note:** If you don't wish to set a password, you can simply not expose the database container's ports to your host machine. You can control which ports, if any at all, are exposed with the `docker-compose.yaml` file.

The Neo4j container's data, import, logs, and config directories will be mounted on the host machine at `$HOME/neo4j`. All the data in the database, including the username and password, will persist in the `$HOME/neo4j/data` directory over multiple runs of the container.

> **Note:** If the docker-compose commands are is giving you trouble, try running them as the system administrator with the `sudo` command. Remember, though, that if you are running  your commands as 'sudo', then $HOME will actually be '/root'. This has consequences for data importation (see below)

The API should now be running at http://localhost:5000/api, and the Neo4j browser user interface should be running at http://localhost:7474. You can open your browser with these addresses to see these applications in action. You wont see much until you load data into the database, though.

## Loading Data

String-db hosts its database at https://string-db.org/cgi/download.pl. You can get subsets of the database by selecting a species, so far we have only been using *Homo sapiens*. There is a python script `neo4j/download_stringdb_data.py` that can be used to download, unzip, and properly format the data for *Homo sapiens*. This script must be run with version 3 of python, in the terminal run `python --version` to check your version. If you will not be using this script you will need to manually fix TSV headers in some of the data files.

```
cd stringdb-beacon/neo4j
python3 download_stringdb_data.py
```

If you have used docker-compose to run the application, you will have a `neo4j/import` directory mounted in your $HOME directory. If you are running docker-compose as 'sudo', then you should also run the download script as 'sudo' so thta $HOME defaults to '/root', which is where your Docker neo4j database will expect to see the data.

Your Neo4j docker container should be named stringdbbeacon_db_1, run `docker-compose ps` to confirm this. We will execute the load.cql file, in the `neo4j` directory, using the Neo4j shell.

```
docker exec -i stringdbbeacon_db_1 /var/lib/neo4j/bin/neo4j-shell -c < load.cql
```

> **Note:** Again, if running other commands as 'sudo', then run this command as 'sudo' as well. If you see `java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space`, then you may need to increase the Java heap size with the `_JAVA_OPTIONS` environment variable in `docker-compose.yaml`.


## Issues

This beacon is a work in progress. Here are a few points that still need to be addressed
- So far the evidence and exactmatches API are not implemented.
- I have only been using data for *Homo sapiens*. We should also include mouse, rat, yeast, c. elegans, drosphila, and zebrafish species as well, to complement monarch biolink.
- Only a very small subset of the database files are being used.
